WIP: Whitepaper updates (#7)
Daolab/beaker-whitepaper: Whitepaper.tex

of the underlying hardware the system as possible, without larger abstractions
such as filesystems. In Beaker we expose all the underlying mechanisms (such as
storage) directly to the contract, with only the permissions layer in-between.}
protocol that serves as a building block for establishing secure and scalable
organizations. Beaker enables organizations that will grow in complexity and
will require long term extensibility.

Using Beaker, users can establish an organization on the blockchain with
a much higher level of confidence in its stability and security. The
safety model Beaker provides not only reduces risk, but allows
organizations to be designed in a much more flexible and robust manner.

The exokernel model of Beaker allows organizations to freely define
their own systems and procedures, but within a safe and controlled
environment. The Beaker kernel provides the building blocks and
primitives that organizations need to build more nuanced security and governance
models to suit their use case. Most critically, by using the primitives
Beaker provides, designers of these systems will then be able to

> demonstrate these security guarantees to others without requiring such a high

Reviewer: It's just manual code verification - since we don't need source code to demonstrate Beaker's security guarantees.

two primary limitations:

\begin{itemize}
  \item This is a difficult and complicated process. Much like any other complex
  process, a single mistake can result in a major flaw. If this is the single
  line of defence (as is common currently in smart contracts) then this flaw
  will not be caught by any other system.
  On a regular computer or server, if the code tries to do
  something too far out of its bounds it will be caught by the operating system.
  In smart
  contracts all code can make any change to the system, so an uncaught mistake
  has limitless consequences.
  \item These tools are available only to highly trained developers and auditors
  with the resources (i.e. time) to apply those skills to the code. Other
  stakeholders in the system are able to gain little or no insight into the
  code. They simply have to trust the developer.
\end{itemize}

\subsection{Upgrades}\label{upgrades}
One area where the lack of isolation in smart contracts is most problematic is
in the upgrading of smart contracts. DSLs, verification, auditing etc. are
excellent tools to ensure that a smart contract will behave as intended, but

> they struggle to maintain their effectiveness is during upgrades. Once an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where they struggle to maintain their effectiveness is during upgrades. Once an
```

> upgrade occurs, the whole system needs to be reaudited ensure the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
upgrade occurs, the whole system needs to be re-audited to ensure the same
```

constraints still apply.
With a multi-component smart contract, it is increasingly possible to update one
or more of these components as the need arises, including for important security
fixes.

Being able to change the code in a smart contract system is important, as it
gives us the ability to correct errors. However, it also gives us the ability
to introduce new ones or

> allow malicious actors to introduce new ones. In the example above, what was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow malicious actors to introduce them. In the example above, what was
```

> allow malicious actors to introduce new ones. In the example above, what was

Reviewer: There's an image here i'm guessing?

  The kernel parses the code of this contract and verifies it does not contain
  any illegal opcodes. If any illegal opcodes are found, the contract is
  rejected.
\item
  To designate a syscall dispatch, the code must include a valid syscall
  entry. To allow the kernel ownership, it checks if the contract has an
  additional header that prevents unauthorized calls to the contract.
\item
  Once the code as been verified it is added to the kernel's procedure table,
  and can then be assigned capabilities.
\item
  The procedure can then be used.
\end{enumerate}

\subsection{Entry Procedure}\label{entry-procedure}
We have now outlined a kernel that is generally only accessible from its
own procedures. It must, however, also accept some form of external
transaction, this is the only way it can be triggered to execute code.
As an operating system Beaker should have no say over what kind of
transactions and programs a system wants to execute, and should not impose any
format on those transactions. Beaker follows a
exokernel design, where the kernel itself should stay out of the user's
code as much as possible.

> We an divide the calls that a Beaker kernel has to accept into two categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can divide the calls that a Beaker kernel has to accept into two categories:
```
